>> Zac: Let's talk about
what we've done here.
So everybody has had an example to, or
had a chance to at least work through.
Thumbs up if you got through
saving something successfully.
All right, thumbs stay up if that felt
good at some emotional level to have it,
yeah, okay.
I'd like to take a moment then, let's
just go around and hear from everyone.
If you have a question, or
insight something that you noticed,
anything like that, and
we'll start over at the far end here.
Speak into the microphone, please.
>> Female: Just to ask,
somebody who has no PHP background at all,
and just JavaScript.
I'm kind of really enjoying this even
though we haven't really touched
any of the PHP.
So I'm a little nervous about
diving into that later on,
but otherwise overall enjoying it.
>> Zac: Nice.
That is actually really great feedback and
if you stay in the WordPress ecosystem,
that's what PHP learning is like.
It's just little bits,
it's pretty manageable.
So hopefully that will continue on.
Very cool.
>> Male: I think some
prerequisites would have been cool too,
just having a little bit to take
a look at before we come in here.
I took a look at some of the stuff and
have worked with my own WordPress
website a little bit, but
I've learned a lot here.
So the single page application
stuff is really cool.
And like you said, once you get that
stuff working and you can update that,
it's really.
>> Zac: Nice, yeah.
I think that you're right.
That, again, my assumption was that most
folks watching or here at the workshop,
would have built a theme or
have some of that.
So double applause to tackling this weird
alien environment without that background.
Let's jump to the back row.
>> Male: Just it's really nice.
Kind of an expedited path that you can
follow now to develop your own stuff
if you like.
Gets the really basics taken care of.
>> Zac: Cool, so
you're okay with the,
here's a bunch of code,
just change these few things, and then-
>> Male: [CROSSTALK] And manipulate it.
>> Zac: Comes into place?
>> Male: After that, based on what you're
looking for, yeah.
>> Zac: Cool.
How long do you think we
would've been here if we'd coded
everything today from scratch?
>> Male: We probably
would've gotten through one of the things.
>> Zac: [LAUGH]
Yeah, we'd still be in [CROSSTALK] QS.
[CROSSTALK] that big wouldn't
probably be what happened.
How about you?
>> Female: I really liked how it's,
like WordPress, but it's also JavaScript,
so it patches together the small bits of
knowledge that aren't really workable
that I have into like a big picture.
I can actually do stuff
with these half-finished
coding tutorials.
>> Zac: Totally, and
I think that you hit the nail
on where we are with JavaScript.
Like I said, you could build
full apps based on the API.
But what most people are doing and
the biggest wins are just like
a little bit here, and
it makes it that much slicker, right?
And so awesome, good feedback.
>> Male: Yeah, I definitely
appreciate the moldability to all the work
that we did today as someone who hasn't.
I kinda stopped at getting my
situation kind of figured out,
getting things hooked up
on the development side.
One thing I,
just I might appreciate as someone who is
kind of freak for having all of my notes.
Kind of look less on my computer if it
would be possible to take the slides and
make that into a raw readme file or
something like that
>> Zac: So good, okay.
>> Male: It's a little more like
digestible that's just as I'm kind
of tooling around a little bit now.
>> Zac: No, that is brilliant.
I'll take all the slides and put them
in a markdown format or something,
then you could just read [SOUND],
nice, awesome.
Cool, good feedback.
How about for you?
>> Male: I thought that
the responsiveness, actually,
of the code is surprisingly nifty.
I thought it was for some JavaScript code,
it takes a long time to load.
This was actually surprisingly fast.
So the code is straightforward
to understand,
as long as you've seen it before.
But that's the first thing that
came to mind, was like, yeah,
this loads fairly fast.
>> Zac: Good, because sometimes the API
can be a little slow, so it's good
that your initial feel was responsive.
Did most people feel it was pretty quick?
You weren't waiting too long?
Good, that's what we're looking for,
awesome.
Best for last, eh?
>> Male: As someone who really has thought
at different times in my life that
WordPress was kind of equivalent to
blogger.com or simple.
>> Zac: Yes.
>> Male: This,
I'm amazed that kind of power.
And I think as time goes on, I go through
the notes, I'll discover more and
more that you can do with this.
And the second observation, for being a
one day course, I've been impressed by how
much interactive you've been with
the students in the chatroom and stuff.
And I've gotten a lot of feedback
just from you, personally,
which I definitely was not expecting.
>> Zac: Hoorah, well, thanks for
all coming.
I've enjoyed that, too?
>> Male: And I guess I'd add that I've
done a lot of consulting for
start ups and just working here as well.
WordPress is how people
get ideas off the ground.
It's really just the real fast,
simple framework that you
can pull a bunch of plugins.
And then mold your application
to do something that
really hasn't been done before, or does
what you need it to do for your business.
So a lot of people built
the version 1 [LAUGH].
>> Zac: Yeah
>> Male: On WordPress.
And in our case, we are continuing
to use it [LAUGH] because
it's just such a big
project to get off of it.
Even though we have a successful app and
we're making a lot of
changes to it incoming.
But it's just the ease
of use to stand up and
how many plugins that you can get into it.
So if anyone's entrepreneurial,
just a great fantastic way to
get things off the ground.
And another experience work for
big corporation and they were always just
shocked that how much
their C-sharper you know,
C language based CMS' would cost
to do anything you know, right?
And it's like,
yeah you wanna build a website,
that's gonna be a $100,000 or $200,000.
And it's like, you know what, I'd keep
saying in WordPress, I can stand this up
in a week by myself [LAUGH].
>> Zac: And I only charge you 50.
>> Male: [LAUGH] Yeah,
only charge a $50 grand.
So those are just some
things to add to that.
>> Zac: Awesome, very good feedback.
Yeah, I like that.
And I guarantee that like in the next
moon, at least half of you will have some
over conversation where
WordPress could be a solution.
And the other person might not even know
it, and you don't have to bring it up
to him because then you're also
volunteering your help, right?
But you'll end up and had be like, that
WordPress could do that pretty easy right.
>> Male: So do you feel like focusing on
JavaScript and
WordPress as future-proofing yourself,
at least for the next four months?
[LAUGH]
>> Male: I mean, is this up and
coming or way over this behind the curve?
>> Zac: I think it'll take you
four months of this to get over
the next hump of leaving here and
really getting more comfortable.
But I can even see in the next,
I think five years is safe to say
that WordPress is not gonna go away.
It's still gonna gain a few
percentages of the web.
JavaScript sure ain't going away.
And after that time, more and more
developers will already have these skills,
so like at this point you really do have a
cutting edge, and anyone watching at home,
you do too.
So this is all valuable.